[Music]
so what gave me the idea for the show I
wanted to create something that was far
more intimate so when we're up on stage
I find a lot of times that the guest the
level of anxiety is raised we've got
like 20 people milling around I've got a
camera on a crane it's you know zooming
in and out and it just it creates a
super different vibe and I love that
show and we're gonna keep doing it and
it's really extraordinary but I think
that there's something that I really
wanted to experiment with what would it
look like if it was just me and a guest
we were alone doing our thing there's no
one around what would that bring out
where would it go less formal and so I
thought that that would be really really
interesting and so here we sit man so
your background is super fascinating I
see we're wearing a shirt is this child
of an immigrant yeah give us like a
super quick thumbnail like what's the
background super quick my parents are
from Punjab which is the north part of
India and they came in the 70s to
Toronto Canada my dad had a master's
degree in economics but immediately in
Toronto he had to find labour jobs
because he couldn't afford to go to
school and didn't have the time either
was a new fact I need why Toronto um I
have no idea why they make the choices
they make but I feel like at that point
they thought that's where the
opportunities were in the early 70s and
even though he had education he came and
he worked in a furniture factory for a
bit and then he became a cab driver and
he drove cab for about 30 years until he
retired and my mother worked at the
Kellogg's Factory and for about two
years and she hurt his shoulder and then
after that she had to be stay at home
and but that started her journey into
spirituality she spent more time
learning about Sikh heritage and Sikh
history and going to the temples and
kind of sharing all the cool stories
there were very martial people so we
have a lot of stories about cool battles
and people getting their heads cut off
and everything so me being a little kid
loved hearing all the stories and that
kind of got us into Sikh heritage and
there's always a stress on education so
when I finished University it was about
I didn't know I know go to school get
employed so I was like alright I'm gonna
do my MBA one of my family friends did
that got a cool job at Nike thought
that's how you do it fell in love with
the idea of potentially doing something
else that'd be more interesting my
sister recommended I
get into teaching we're watching Boston
Public that TV show has a really good
teacher I've helped out a lot of kids
camps like you're good with kids
pretty much forged a year worth of
volunteer experience from a teacher
friend applied within like three weeks
they had no idea how competitive it was
in Canada to get the Teachers College
mmm
ended up in Teachers College my first
degree was IT so I was coding and doing
math and started working at the
elementary school teacher you were
teaching coding and math no I was my
first degree my undergrad was an
information technology IC JavaScript and
all that fun stuff I just posted
something I think last night that was a
quote from Elon Musk and it said you're
paid in direct proportion to the
difficulty of the problems you solve and
there was huge thread from teachers
going what about us were paid fuck-all
and it was really interesting what's
your take I'm like where like do you
think teachers are underpaid overpaid
it's an impossible job like that you
want to talk about an area I would never
go into like that seems like the world's
a most thankless job and be just
overwhelming in fact because I did teach
for a while but I was teaching adults
which was a lot easier but it was it was
an inhuman amount of work it's
definitely a thankless job I think from
an economic standpoint I don't agree
when teachers complain about how much
they make I think I mean Warren Buffett
said a long time ago he said you know
somebody who could swing a bat very well
is always going to get paid more than
somebody who teaches your children and
you know a can that says coca-cola or
7up so it's gonna be worth more than 35
cent it's always gonna get purchased
more than a 35 cent no-name brand Cola
because there's a certain reputation or
something attached to it I start to I
personally believe that people are going
to get paid more when they can do what
other people can't you know if everybody
can mop the floor the mopping the floor
is not gonna pay very well if you can if
you can swing a bat you know from a 90
90 mile an hour pitch and you can hit it
out of the park they're gonna pay you a
lot more if you can step into the
Octagon and take elbows to the head and
back you'll probably get paid a lot more
if you can do brain surgery you'll get
paid a lot more if you
and figure out a way to tell jokes and
make people laugh and people actually
want to show up to your shows to
probably end up getting paid more so I
think what do you think about that that
like when you say that you don't agree
when people complain about it like I go
to the very notion of complaining like
the notion of complaining to me is a
problem like I get it yeah and so I
taught for I don't know off and on maybe
for a year and a half two years and it
was so much [__] work like I would
work all day I would come home and I
would have to do my I would have to
basically learn at night to go back and
have enough to teach people and I
thought what the [__]
and then my sister-in-law was a teacher
and and she was like working around the
clock but my thing is if that's what the
market is willing to pay like you're
asking society to change their values
and my thing is I am so glad some people
approach it that way and I'm actually
really curious to know like how much of
a political stance you take on things
like as somebody who raps like do you
come at that angle but like that's never
gonna be me I just don't find that
interesting I always turn inward so when
I think about alright this pisses me off
that things are this way like teachers
not getting enough money maybe this
makes me a selfish prick but my answer
is well then I'm gonna go learn to do
the thing like you're saying that people
are willing to pay for if money is
something that's interesting to me and
I'm gonna go solve that problem it just
doesn't make sense to me to spend my
time pissed at a system yeah oh I can
agree I don't think there's a lot of
value in complaining you know I mean
even venting for some for some folks and
I think especially with that especially
when it comes to things like teaching is
like you you came in the template you
did the education you went through the
process and now everything you're given
a salary and it's kind of presented in
front of you there's no surprises when
it comes to that and it does become
supply and demand and especially in
Canada teachers are paid much better
than they are paid here but a lot of
students from Toronto are going to these
American colleges in Buffalo and they're
paying you know 30 40 grand to get their
teachers degrees and that overflows you
know the supply in comparison to the
demand so now you know the school boards
and everybody have way more qualified
teachers than they need in terms of you
know the population of the kids the
families and the neighborhoods and none
of these people want to teach in these
rural neighborhoods where they have
they need teachers they everyone wants
to teach in the city so then you know
just straight simple supply and demand
coming to hand you know come into factor
and I always the more thing about that
it's like okay it really is how much
value you can bring to the world and
whether you're thinking about it
consciously or not the more value you
bring to the world the more resources
are given to you to continue bringing
value and we don't get to decide what
the world deems valuable that's the
crazy thing and that was the thing in
and it's funny that Warren Buffett used
the exact same example maybe this is why
somebody used it my Instagram feed they
said like what the [__] you know a
baseball player is getting paid 120
million dollars or whatever for hitting
a round ball and I just thought yes but
there are economics there like that the
people are willing to pay for that and
so now it becomes a question of what do
you do when the world is way the [__]
out of step with you and to me it's
really interesting to watch how people
respond to that because I'm not saying
that like there aren't deep and
troubling flaws with the way that the
world has played out I'm just saying
every one of us has to ask like what do
we do when we're faced with that yeah do
we because there are people who really
try to change the system just not
interesting to me man
like in Dallas or Ralph Nader yeah right
so to me like that kind of thing well I
guess the the great irony of my life is
as I was going to answer the question
the though when I really look at
changing value system and the irony of
the fact that I didn't think of this
when I was first answering it is not
lost on me but my whole thing with
impact theory is that it's a
generational play so there's no way that
I can have the kind of impact on one
person like one generation that I want
to have like the only way that you're
gonna have that kind of impact is if you
burrow into somebody's mind and then
they pass it on to their kids and then
they pass it on to their kids and the
way that culture stacks which is so
[__] interesting to me and it's
something that I think people don't
think enough about like in fact this is
interesting for you as somebody who's in
hip-hop it's like when you look at the
simplicity of the rhymes from the 80s
and now just where we are it's not that
those people weren't capable of doing
what they do now is that they didn't
have somebody before them to show them
like the complex rhythms that you can
use so we build upon each other yeah
yeah that that's super interest going
from like the nursery rhymes to like
then rock him
and just blew people's minds that he was
doing multi-syllable rhymes and then you
had someone like biggie doing Rakim was
doing but then also adding in humor and
then all of a sudden you had ja rule
coming in and he was just singing and
rapping and now you see the evolution
and in Kanye West drops a toe weights
and heartbreaks and then that just
spawns off you Travis Scott you're
Drake's and all these new artists that
come in and then you know t-pain comes
in with the auto-tune and cemented into
the culture and you see that and I mean
definitely that's the case that was
actually I got I was lucky enough to go
with Lily to the all-star game and you
know sitting courtside you get to meet a
lot of these rappers and I got to meet 2
Chainz and I was telling him I said you
know as a South Asian I'm I feel like we
in artistic world and even in the
entrepreneurial world are about 30 years
behind african-american folks in terms
of what messaging we're trying to get
out we don't have that Kendrick Lamar
nor do we have that jay-z we don't have
this leadership yet to set it up and I'm
really not totally go I'm taking notes
from how you guys are doing it and how
you guys are working together when okay
meek Millz in jail jay-z's you know
funding that his Legal Defense Fund now
you know Nipsey Hussle just Pat just
passed away you know jay-z went helped
set up a trust fund for his children
like 15 million dollar trust oh yeah Wow
solid and but there's a history like
when Nipsey Hussle like he first came to
prominence cuz he sold a mixtape for
$100 each he printed up a thousand CDs
sold for $100 each cuz he studied the
scarcity principle and jay-z found that
so you know fascinating they took this
risk that he went and he bought a
hundred copies so there's always this
you know support of the entrepreneur and
saying hey if each one teach one I see
what you're doing it took me ten years
to get here let me see if I can get you
to do it in five right you know so when
artists like me you know went to school
once University did the job that
everything his immigrant parents asked
him to do then he had his existential
crisis and then you know let it all go
and became the artist I was supposed to
be now the question is what so walk me
through that so you have the existential
crisis meaning I'm not having fun
teaching and I like this I'm not
fulfilled I think my dialogue for the
longest time was how do people how to
artists make a living and you know I was
doing spoken word poetry and making
music on YouTube for fun and you know
way to meet girls and just have
literally just finally what you do after
work I don't have homework what do I do
I have to work and what I did was I took
a second job tutoring kids and I started
making a really good secondary income
off that and I was like all right I got
some money let's go downtown on the
weekends and have some fun
I went to a spoken-word concert once saw
the guy on stage and he just spit some
beautiful bars and I was just like I can
do this and this is probably a great way
to meet girls and that was literally it
was just supposed to be something fun
and then put some stuff on YouTube a
friend invited me with him to be his
plus-one at some party felt like I was
crashing everybody knew who I was
because they saw me on YouTube and you
know that fed to ego a little bit more
so for me it was like all right this is
feeding my ego this is an icebreaker I
don't know how to introduce myself to
people because most people know who I am
at least in my little pocket in the
motor community and then take it serious
and then I'd go to events with other
artists and these guys are like filling
out grant applications working odd jobs
here there and this is like before uber
and just other types of jobs that you
know maybe creatives would benefit from
taking while they're on there come up
and I was like I don't want to live like
these guys I like my my current life of
making this much as a teacher we are the
same dude
so in filmmaking you see a lot of people
do the starving artists saying yeah I
was like absolutely not like I'm not
working my way up on set and that's what
you know so many people graduated film
school and that was like their stick
they're gonna start as a PA and then
they're gonna work their way up and then
hopefully one day they're writing and
directing and I was like [__] that like
I it for me it's either I'm doing
something else or I'm directing but I'm
not doing like the schlepping cables for
ten years and the hopes that I get my
break that just seemed crazy to me and
so I was like you know I'm gonna make a
play to try to write to try to get
something done and the like the way that
my life played out has always been an
echo of that like the thing that I want
to do has to be like in and of itself
has got to be interesting and so and
quite frankly just like total control
freaky like I I did not want to be a
starving artist
I did not want other people to have
control over my art like I I went to
extraordinary lengths to retain control
and and what that also forces you to do
is not be on the template because that's
how you told the hey you want to be an
actor or an actress so you want to be a
director you got a
you news here's the template you want to
be a doctor here's the template here's
the path I wish I'd been that smart I
was too dumb to follow the template and
I actually mean that sincerely I had no
sense of like what the other than to go
be a PA and work my way up but I wish I
had been doing it because I was so
clever that I was gonna buck the system
I think I was too lazy to carry cables
that's like the God's honest truth
but I mean even Bill Gates aside hire
lazy people yeah a way to solve fraud
and I mean again you didn't follow the
template I mean think you're doing all
right it worked out okay the funny thing
is so I always tell people like when
people hear my story in Reverse like you
you see the punchline that I end up
being successful but at the time all I
had was shame I had shame I had
self-doubt I had confusion I felt lost
for almost two years I slept on an air
mattress that had a [__] leak it
would have only cost me $20 to replace
it and I was so like broke I didn't want
to spend the money so I would blow it up
every night no matter how [__] tired
I was I would blow this air mattress up
by the morning I used to put clothes
under the bed because by the morning
would be completely flat and so I and
and this is [__] true my bed was half
in a closet and half out because I had
to share a room so there was the track
for the closet door yeah so when I would
wake up on the floor I was on the track
so I put clothes all over the place so
that I wouldn't wake up and feel the
metal in my side but that's like that's
where this shit's I think it's so ironic
that you're wearing that Batman hat
because I was just thinking in my head
I'm like this guy's Bruce Wayne he's
probably probably sleep on the floor now
in your house here's the thing
so Bruce Wayne like really means
something to me and I wish like I do a
lot of things to try to emulate Bruce
Wayne but if you're really deep in the
lore of like how badass that
[__] is learning to read lips in
Russian is my favorite Bruce Wayne story
but no I'm not that hardcore but I do
[__] with cold showers do that okay so
you're one of those guys who's like hey
I'm going to actively make myself
uncomfortable 1,000 and do all of these
things you know and you just trying to
find it is 100 percent I don't want to
do it like the the thing about
self-worth and self-respect like the
first time I ever hear of a read the
book love yourself like your life
depends on it
it's actually I so want it to be true
and the guy that wrote it it it seemed
to really have changed his life and so
for people that it works for I'm so
stoked
but that would not have worked for me
and I think for a lot of people it won't
and the punchline is basically you have
to start just by telling yourself that
you love yourself telling yourself you
love yourself over and over and over
look in the mirror and say you love
yourself and my thing is a it's better
than the alternative if that's crowding
out a negative voice that's rad it's a
nice step but the reality is if you
really want to have self-worth if you
want to have self-respect if you want to
value yourself you have to earn it you
have to do something that you value you
have to do something that makes you feel
like you have [__] Worth and one of
the things instantaneously dude
instantaneously if you can get yourself
to follow through on something that you
value but is hard you will instantly
feel that sense of like whoa so every
day I start with basically three things
that I do not want to do and just in
doing them they make me feel good about
myself number one I get out of bed in
ten minutes or less for some people
that's not hard for me that's [__]
hard and the deepest shame in my life
was all around I didn't want to get out
of bed for hours and hours and hours on
end and yeah anyway that's a very dark
period in my life I've talked about it
before so that's number one I give my I
have a rule I'm out of bed in ten
minutes or less number two I work out I
do not enjoy working out in any way
shape or form but I do it and the number
three I take a [__] cold shower the
cold shower by far is the one that
messes with me the most and it's
actually the one it's number two in my
consistency I'm deadly consistent on ten
minutes or less I'm probably 95%
consistent on the cold shower and then
working out is actually the one I'm
least consistent but doing those things
like actually gives me self-worth and
nothing it's it's not the success it's
not the money those things can't [__]
touch self-worth man it's that Jordan
Peterson idea of fixed you know tackle
the pile of paper on your desk thousand
percent you know just doing something
that you've been dreading to do the more
you do that that will probably you know
give you more fulfillment than even
chasing a passion you know that's kind
of the idea yeah so let me ask you this
if you start to acclimate and now cold
showers is your norm I have a buddy who
went you know to get through after you
got through with some three years of a
diction with drinking he lives in Berlin
he went to a farm in Portugal and he and
he worked with the farmhands and then he
went and taught in Palestine for a
couple of months and he skin of the
chills sorry that just gave me the
chills that's so smart and I never would
have thought yeah but yeah I don't and I
don't think he read it out of a book I
think he literally just wanted to do it
and he left him did it and then when I
went to go visit him I'm in his
apartment and I was like is your heat
broken and he's like oh no I just don't
turn it on I just got used to it like
this and I was just like I'm like you're
like a real-life magical monk right now
you don't you've just gotten to this
point like it's kind of like you know if
you stop it's hard to not eat sugar but
if you go months without eating sugar
you'll acclimate to it so if you get to
the point where like cold showers is
your norm you know for me you know I
drink black coffee or and I try to have
like no carbs in the morning and now I'm
used to it I can enjoy my breakfast I
enjoy the black coffee and and I'm not
create it's not discipline for me
anymore for that I got used to it
I do have a list of like well what's the
next thing gonna be that I'm going to do
I guess it's confession time so there's
one thing that haunts me I'm not
committed to it I talk about it though
because it weighs on my mind okay
open-water terrifies me more than
anything in this world and I got invited
to speak at this open water thing and I
promised my team open water you just me
like a lady open [__] ocean like the
ocean yeah so this guy was a free diver
meaning no scuba gear you just hold your
breath and you [__] dive as deep as
you can and these guys die all the time
because they if once you're halfway dude
if you misjudge and you go a little too
far there's no making it back it's
already too late like you're already
dead once you turn around if you've
waited too long so anyway that [__]
freaks me out the movie open water is my
greatest nightmare have you seen that
movie
holy [__] and it's based on a true story
okay and it's this couple they get on a
boat to go scuba diving they go out
every day do the head count they go down
you always go with a partner they go
with each other the guy missed counts
when they come back up they think they
have everybody but they don't so they've
resurfaced the boat is [__] gone and
they don't realize that they've left
people out there until
God knows how long three hours later or
something then they get back in the boat
and they try to find them but the
currents have taken them so far they
never find them and the movie is is
literally just these two people bobbing
up and down in the [__] water and
like how terrifying it is to not be able
to see what's beneath you and oh my god
dude the real-life story that it's based
on they end up there like dive board I
guess you have like a white board
essentially with them and it shows up
and I think I may be misremembering this
part it shows up and it says something
if I remember right it says sharks and
so it's like oh god like that that
freaks me out so much so to your point
like that's the one thing like in the
back of my mind I'm always like at some
point in my life I'm gonna need to do
that so anyway I get this speaking gig I
tell my team I within my code of ethics
I'll do anything to make this business
successful cuz I so believe in the
[__] mission so I get offered this
thing it is my greatest fear so I say
yes so within my code of ethics right so
thank God it got canceled and I was like
thank you like whoever is watching the
baby fit to say yes yeah I said yes
thank you and I was very proud of myself
but when I say I was relieved to the
core of my being when I got canceled I
was relieved but so that that's the
thing that hangs in the back of my mind
cold exposure in particular it's really
really interesting cuz you actually
develop what they call brown fat so your
your normal adipose tissue which is
white fat it's not thermogenic it
doesn't generate a lot of heat I mean
it's probably got insulation properties
but it doesn't generate heat but Brown
fat actually generates heat it is it has
I think it's happening like it has an
increased metabolic rate or something
anybody that knows about this right now
is rolling over because I'm sure I'm
[__] this up but it's basically from
you - yeah exactly
come on man what the [__] so but it
becomes thermogenic and there was this
woman who did exactly what your man in
porch okay so she did all this cold
exposure slept in Alaska with the window
open in winter only took cold cold
showers also she could drumroll please
swim the [__] Bering Strait the space
between Russia and Alaska oh that's
crazy but that's how much the human body
can adapt yeah we're a lot more
resilient than we realize
that is getting real softer here now
that I you know we have no predators and
we have not a lot of dangers so now all
of our fears that were you know fear
used to be here to protect us from real
physical danger now it's all just like
well what are people gonna think what
happens if I do something different oh
no what if I you know recycle that
outfit what if my Instagram picture
don't get enough likes in context of
what you did so you talk about this
breaking of the template thing which I
should find really interesting so you've
bucked it pretty hard yeah you try
booked it involuntarily I was like you
but things didn't go my way so I said I
don't want to be a starving artist I
never want to be a starving artist and
then somebody that may be making music
would say hey I got us a deal we're
gonna write music for all these kids and
you know they can't write music but they
got they got rich daddies and we know
they're gonna pay for us to write all
this music for them they're gonna put it
out and we'll get like 10 grand a song
will be good and I was like oh that's
more than I make as a teacher you're
gonna pay me 120 grand for this one
album that's way more than I make it a
teacher let's do it so you know no due
diligence no asking any questions just
seeing a PDF you know contract I signed
and I told my job I got to go and I left
at the end of 2010 and then all 2011 was
living the beautiful artists life
thinking at any moment this 120 grand
was coming so I'm just wiping credit
cards living off a line of credit
the five years that I had taught I'd
purchased a property that I'd rented out
as an investment kicked my tenant out
now I'm living in there and it's
completely just you know no furnitures
sitting on lawn chairs
making music just being like but the
money's coming and being a purist
artists because I feel like I'm
financially taken care of
took about a year of denial to realize
the money wasn't coming oh yeah so all
2011 it just accrued about $80,000 with
oh god yeah and the guy who had the deal
or brought the deal to my table the
second I caught him in a big lie he just
literally disappeared and he was living
with me so he disappeared with whatever
was on his back like he left everything
in his room and never came back because
he realized that way he had crossed a
big line and I'm for this day I don't
know what his main motivation was I
think you're trying to do some sort of a
borrow money from this guy
and borrow money from this case I think
he did kind of believe in my talents and
he thought he could manipulate this long
enough to blur eventually to pay itself
off but he got caught in a lie and he
just disappeared like completely
disappeared that's crazy
yes oh I just felt completely betrayed
heartbroken I never had my heart broken
from a guy I considered him a brother
and I was and I was over girls at this
point I didn't my heart broken too many
times by them so I was like hey you know
let me have this brotherly love I don't
have any brothers in real life
so I was heartbroken and I was blaming
everybody like you know how come you
guys didn't tell me he was shady how
come you nobody warned me and what am I
supposed to do at the same time I was
very ashamed as you know as you've
experienced as well
didn't want to tell my family so now I'm
in isolation not telling anybody what's
happening my public profile is still
growing people are learning who humble
the poet is and you know I'm getting a
gig in like Fresno California I'm
getting flown out to India to do a gig
breaking even on the shows you know
India will pay you how are you doing
hip-hop are you doing spoken-word
hip-hop this is a straight hip hop in
India they don't have a massive
english-speaking population and they dig
it they considered me punk rock out
there I was just making high-level hip
hop energy and jazz it's going wild on
stage but I wasn't earning I was my
public profile was growing but I was I
wasn't earning nor did I know how to
earn I didn't know what to do so by the
end of 2011 is when I finally came to
that realization that [__] that check
isn't coming you need to figure
something out and then it was about two
weeks of just sitting and sitting in bed
lying in bed avoiding all phone calls my
debt wasn't just to the banks my debt
was to friends people I really cared
about I'm drinking nyquil every day
taking muscle relaxers and just
literally hoping for the Calvary to come
just someone to come save me from all
this nobody came spoiler alert and at
one point I did that music playing it
was a Jay Cole at a dollar in a dream
and he has one line in there he goes are
you gonna let this are you gonna allow
this to turn you bitter and cold are you
gonna flip that last [__] dollar and
turn it to a dreaming I think a
combination of that line I don't want to
make it sound too romantic I think the
combination of that line and the two
weeks in Beck's I was probably healing
from my pain I got up and I just said in
my head
[__] this sink or swim [__] all those
tumblr quotes [__] all these ideas that
Oh there's you know God closes a door
and opens the window God has a plan for
you or great things that just lying
beneath or beyond the horizon and all
just fluffy [__] was like no it's
sink or swim you you you want to have a
vacation now go back to your day job you
know you don't take any shots you're not
gonna score any goals just do it you
know you can you're either making
progress are you making excuses and I
was very very harsh on myself but at
that point that's what I needed I took
all these things and I pasted them all
over my wall and I just looked at them
and I just got to work and I was like
what do I need to do and I remember
maybe four years prior I had at a
restaurant I had met some real-estate
mogul who had owned you know he owned a
lot of property in Canada and he was a
old Italian immigrant he's like you
don't make money by buying a lot of
stuff you make money by saving it
because I got rich by saving my money so
instead of me being like how do I make
money I was like we're gonna cut my
expenses
I sold the place I sold all my recording
equipment I sold everything that I could
I sold clothes I sold all his stuff I
sold everything that I could and I moved
back home with mom and dad and I was you
know 30 and super ashamed thinking I'd
never get laid again you know you know
this is the worst and the the strength
that I found was facing fears and the
big fear was and meeting I [__] up
knowing that most people when you admit
like hey how you doing we always like
say I'm fine right this time I was like
no I'm not good like I'm I have a lot of
debt I don't know how I'm gonna make any
money I messed up that deal didn't go
well I trusted the wrong people and they
weren't master manipulators they just
told me what I wanted to hear and you
know I had the rosy colored glasses on
and I fell for that [__] and being open
and saying that to people nobody expects
to hear that and most people were
supportive somewhere somewhere like I
told you so all along and I had to own
that and I'm like no don't feel sorry
for yourself own it and I think the the
the big shift for me and going back to
our original concept of complaining was
power only exists when you take
responsibility
[__] yeah if I blame
Tom for all my problems and Tom has all
the power if I take ownership for my
problems now I have the power to fix it
right and sometimes the only power I
have is to adjust my expectations or
adjust my attitude or increase my effort
but that's better than nothing that's
better than feeling like the victim and
you know talking about this earlier with
somebody else it's we we all need to
feel connected so self-pity is a great
way to feel connected you know connected
with ourselves nobody knows what it
feels like to be betrayed by somebody
except for me and I caught myself doing
that and I said no I don't take
responsibility for this I had to call
everybody I owed money to said look you
know I owe you ten grand I don't have
the ten grand but I don't want to avoid
you but I promise you you'll also you're
not gonna see me spending money right
you're not gonna see me anywhere you're
not gonna see me at you know that guy's
bachelor party in Cancun you're not
gonna see me anywhere until you get your
money I don't have it I'm going to
figure it out but I need you to know
that I'm not gonna be that guy who
avoids you I'm not gonna run away from
this and it took me four years and I
clawed and scraped myself and again I
don't want to gloss over that part and
that involved selling all my stuff that
involved getting you know applying for
different grants gigs were coming money
was slowly coming in making $1,000 a
show this is that adding it all up
everything went to owing the people in
my life paying them all off the banks
could [__] off and wait and eventually I
paid all the humans that I cared about
once I paid them off I did was a big
sense of pride there that I was able to
face this like an adult face everyone
looked him in the eye and do that and it
took another two years to get to a zero
bank account I think was the end of 2014
that had a zero bank account and that
was just my moment of like wow and I
mean and I've seen you speak about you
know the moment you got your big check
and how long that lasted and it was the
same thing I think for years waiting for
that moment the hit zero and how happy I
was gonna be and I was like yeah that
lasts about 18 minutes and now I'm like
what's next but the gift from that as
well was a I had to learn how to be I
was an involuntary minimalist and you
know when money started coming in I
didn't adjust my lifestyle accordingly I
just I stayed the nice simpleton that
was also if you figure out how to go
from negative eighty to zero
you know how to go from zero to 80 and
go for so every year since then has you
know gratefully been I've been doing
very well and every single year's been
going better and better from the
principles I learned about getting out
of debt so now I'm grateful for all of
it for happening I was gonna ask you
about that because I think a lot of
people when they go through something
like that
they're won most people don't take the
risk which by the way you leaving your
job to go do that without like doing a
[__] ton of due diligence you have my
applause I when people aren't willing to
take a risk because you can always back
out of it right you can always go back
like you didn't even have to go back you
found another way to not only get from
zero to something but klas off the [__]
out of a Chris but I want to be honest
at one point I almost did I went back to
the principle of maybe two years I was
like hey and again with my pride hey you
know having a lot of fun doing this art
in music but you know I missed the kids
alright I really missed the kids you
know can you you know can you guys get
me back in and and God bless her she
said you know I think this was a
September I came to in July they can I
come back in September she said listen I
have a place for you but it would be so
much easier for me because you'd be
making me give somebody bad news in
September and if you came in January I
can shuffle around the staff can you
come back in January like yeah no
problem
walked out of our office is like you
need to figure this [__] out before
January because we're not going back
you're not going back you don't get to
quit cuz the problem now is you're still
a local celebrity
so everyday you leave your house so I'm
gonna be like hey boy you want to quit
that and hear that for the rest and
leave for the next ten years until you
blow your brains out or do you want to
do it and I just said forget it this is
who I'm going to be and if it means I'll
die in the next two years doing it then
let's listen if everything must goes and
go you know and and that and that became
my my thing is Lauryn Hill out these
boxes that song and she goes everything
let's goes and go that's how I choose to
live and I'm just like this is it I'm
doing this and tell the dirt whether the
dirt is gonna happen in two years
whether that dirts gonna be in a hundred
years this is all I'm going to do there
is nothing else I'm all-in and it came
slowly and there was fear that were
relapses you know a lot of people do say
how did you pull the trigger you know
you took the risk they know I
I fell for a scheme you know I fell for
a dream but I'm grateful that happened
because otherwise I was like I'm not
leaving until I get something that's
worth more than my salary and and it
took it took somebody you know to lie
and betray me to get me to live my real
authentic life that's really interesting
so I went when I was teaching I had an
offer to leave that which ultimately
ends up in me working with the guys who
will become my partners and quest and
all of that so of course it plays out
very well but at the time people were
like dude what are you doing like you've
got a great job like you're teaching
film you know it's like close to what
you wanted to why would you take this
risk and go with these guys and I was
like what like it to me it that didn't
even make sense like here were these two
guys that were really successful they
were gonna teach me how to do business
they were gonna help me get control of
my own life like to me it just there was
no real risk in that so I was like I can
always go back to teaching but even now
like one thing when you say yeah I was
afraid and I thought about going back
even now in my life there are moments
where I'm afraid there are moments where
I'm like [__] am i doing the right thing
like this is this really how I want to
spend my life like the last six weeks of
my life have been the busiest six weeks
of my life bar none
I have never worked this hard I've been
this busy and that makes you go what the
[__] am I doing this for like I've
already been successful like this is not
about the money for sure
so why am I willing to work this hard
and that voice that question that never
goes away
right you're always gonna have fear
you're always gonna have doubts there's
always gonna be times you have to
realign your life where you start to go
askew and you've got to bring yourself
back so people living in fear of that
like my thing is be afraid of not taking
a risk be afraid of not trying be afraid
of never getting to develop your
potential of never having that moment
where you're like I am doing what I was
meant to do I'm in a flow state like I'm
I feel alive and that's always been my
obsession like what makes me feel alive
I want to go do more of that [__] and so
few people like ever allow themselves to
get to that point because it's hard it's
[__] scary and by the way you're
probably gonna suck balls at it and so
you're gonna have to face that you're
gonna have to face your insecurities of
oh I suck at this and I've got to now
put in the energy to get good at this
and so that to me is like super
interesting like do you as somebody
who's trying I mean [__] man like in
terms of where you're at from a South
Asian hip-hop perspective like is that
ever something that weighs on you were
you like Jesus am i the right person to
be the ambassador for this or is it just
like you're so in love with it you're
gonna do in a matter what the hip-hop
definitely not I am the ambassador for
this and I'm just hoping I have enough
time on this earth for everyone else to
realize that there's death without
question I mean and that's that's the
the prerequisite for hip hop hip hop is
not an open door hey welcome welcome to
culture hip hop is stand your ground let
everybody know that you're here
challenge everyone to try to push you
off your pedestal and if you fall off
get back on it's not a it is not a
welcoming you know type of environment
and it shouldn't be it is completely
competitive in what way is it not
welcoming like what's actually happened
I think it I think it's thrives off his
competitive nature it's it's probably
it's just a sport you know like do you
get called out for like rap battles like
what are we talking I have I mean in you
know in the early years definitely it's
the second I got a platform you know
other artists would reach out for favors
or what-have-you and if you don't give
them the favor they want her you know
most recently probably a year ago an
artist who I had nothing but positive
interactions with not even remotely a
negative interaction ever ever released
a whole song attacking me whoa and I had
no idea why not even in like an inkling
like sitting there like I talked to your
best friend a month ago and that was a
boring comment like I texted him saying
hey do you know what studio in this
neighborhood he's like nah man sorry I
don't all right cool like a boring
conversation no indication that there
was an issue and I think maybe six
months later some was like yeah he had
released the song and you didn't share
it and I'm sitting there like I didn't
even know he released the song I didn't
he didn't ask me to do anything and
realizing that you know he's telling his
story not mine you know the same way
these guys are like aren't you afraid
you'll even a good job they're telling
you their story right they're projecting
their insecurities on you and some of
that stuff internalizes with us so for
me I think I thrive off that level of
competition and for me I find it fun
it's no different than if we started
playing
some people don't like playing with me
cuz I talk a lot of [__] you know if I
win a big hand and I didn't have good
cars everyone's gonna see it I'm gonna
cheese people for it I'm gonna make
nicknames I enjoy this [__] talk I grew
up in a neighborhood like that so I
enjoy that type of competition I did
start out with Rap Battles humble the
poet itself I originally started with
the name humble and then in a rap battle
I said you know rappers are simple MCS
are more complicated I'm better than all
y'all I'm the poet and then I ended up
winning this big tournament and then I
changed my name to humble the poet to
rub it in so the irony of calling
yourself humble but it actually being a
very cocky name that was inspired by a
lot of spite so for me I loved it for
that I mean I've become a
multi-discipline artist I mean going
through that process in my struggling
years you know at the same time I didn't
even know how people in music made money
I used to like ask artists well how are
you making money and a couple guys in
the UK are like well you know when they
play your music on the radio you get
like 50 cents a spin that's how I make
my money and I was like that doesn't
sound like much
then my studio engineer got in a fight
with his girlfriend stop picking up the
calls the guy who shot my videos got in
a fight with his wife stopped picking up
the calls and then I was like I don't
know how to record my own music I don't
know how to shoot a video I don't know
how to do anything and you know luckily
I had this new friend you know there's
this young lady by the name of Lilly
Singh who it just started YouTube and we
had just you know hung out for the first
time we're meeting Thai food and in her
neighborhood and she's like well I set
up a tripod and I make my own videos and
I edit them and I learned how to edit by
myself she goes I suggest you do
something that you can do by yourself
and you won't have to wait on anybody
because I don't have to wait on anybody
and I can work whenever I work and if
the work doesn't gets done it's my fault
and there's another pound in my head
personal responsibility take ownership
so like well what can I do cuz my equal
was still like you know you if you're
gonna produce need to produce like these
world-class producers that you work with
if you need to record you need to be an
engineer because your buddy went to the
New York School of Engineering and you
know you don't not do any of this you
even know to use GarageBand so I wrote I
just started writing and I was writing
on Facebook and I was just like find a
picture that I thought was inspiring
off of like Reddit or something and I
would just post a picture and like one
picture was
a monkey feeding baby tiger with a
bottle and and I just write about love
and him it was it prose or was it poetry
prose okay yeah cuz the thing was I only
wrote in poetry and I only wrote in
rhyme and now the idea was put why don't
you just write in prose which is much
simpler in comparison to what I was
doing before and I was like okay so it
kind of felt like just vomiting out
ideas and I just I had read an article
up from some bloggers who said he
blogged every day for a year and number
one question was like didn't you run out
of ideas right about and he's like just
try it you won't run out of ideas so I
just took that as the challenge and
every single day I wrote and I just
found a picture and and they had a
folder of just pictures during my
procrastination and I just wrote and in
the meantime I was trying to figure out
how to make some money doing you know
everything and anything at that point
and about six months into it you know I
had a fan base from about maybe 50,000
60,000 people on Facebook to like you
should write a book and I'm like I don't
know how to write a book and I don't
know how I don't have the money to write
a book I don't know any of this I don't
know anybody who has written a book and
then somebody sent me a link to Amazon
CreateSpace and like these guys do print
to order books you don't even have to
keep the books in your house and then
somebody else is like hey have you heard
of Adobe InDesign you know I'll show you
how to use it and then a friend in
Toronto who was making signs for like
you know he yet clients like Home Depot
he'd make their sale signs he's like I
can show you how to use InDesign and
then he taught me how to how to build my
book through InDesign didn't you turn
your book into an international
bestseller yes you do that while it was
being self-published or did you have a
publisher help you oh no so what
happened was so I wish the book in 2013
on indiegogo so i crowdfunded mmm and I
said hey I don't know how to write this
book I don't know how to build a book
and I don't even know if it's gonna cost
it's a compelling pitch it's a
compelling pitch but I said hey if you
guys you know my relationship with you
is all that matters if we do this and I
don't have to be a sucker and sign too
you know and I was doing it for music as
well I don't have to sign to a record
deal I don't send a record label
I don't assign to a publisher because I
don't want to get exploited and I don't
have any leverage moving in and you guys
matter and I want to keep this you know
why should you raise I raise $26,000
Wow 305
people Wow $26,000 my biggest
contribution was $1,500 from a professor
at Harvard who I had never met Wow and
he just simply said I was very happy to
see an artist take business in their own
hands I went to go visit him in his name
is Karim Lakhani I think either tenured
professor now at Harvard and he had
already he had done his tenure in
crowdsourcing so he was the guy when
NASA would be like hey we have these
hard problems
can you help solve it and he was the guy
who went into like the nerd communities
is like hey I have 25 grand who can ever
solve this equation somebody would solve
it in a matter of minutes
they get the 25 grand he helps NASA oh
and like that he was already doing that
so he was like you took crowdfunding not
a lot of artists are taking crowdfunding
to this level that you're trying to do
it and I was inspired by an Amanda
Palmer watching her story do it and it
was I was I was afraid to ask for help
so me the for me the biggest
accomplishment was overcoming the fear
of asking for help and saying I need
help to do this yeah so raise the 26
grand and it was simply saying hey if
you give me $1 I'll send you a folder of
all the music I've ever made if you give
me $5 I'll send you a PDF of the book if
you send me $30 I'll send you a signed
copy of the book send me a hundred bucks
I'll sign I'll send you a signed copy of
the book a t-shirt and we'll have a
Skype date $250 I'll send you a
hardcover I'm printing only 100 of them
I'm gonna sign them and you have a
hardcover and actually even in the so
and I'll get to that part but so that
was independent I raised the 26 grand
which was a big accomplishment for me
too
like oh I'm struggling a lot less now
now I can I can explore maybe doing
something I like right not just simply
trying to make money but what ended up
happening was this self-publishing was
so convenient because if I got a show in
London
I could just go on Amazon order the
books now and and my cost was about four
dollars and fifty cents a copy and I
just shipped the box to London to a
friend's house and then I'd do the show
and I sell the books for 20 pounds each
and a book retains its value much better
than like a cheesy t-shirt right at that
time so it was a great way for me and I
was learning the
business of its I started throwing my
own shows that's another way I started
earning money I'd pick a city and that
crowdfunded I'd be like hey Edmonton I
want to come I want to perform so you
know it's February I want to come and
May and perform but we have to pre sell
50 tickets is this all IndieGoGo all
IndieGoGo because kick-started with all
or nothing and you go gave you like the
freedom right at your goals you could
they take a bigger percentage but we can
still make it happen and so you're
covering the cost of the venue you're
the venue in the travel like I was
trying to cover the venue in the travel
and then slowly so I found more creative
ways to kind of earn a little bit more
so one thing I did was I'd say first we
need to send yes I figure out the bare
basic cost the venue most of the venues
I kind of made a deal with them I said
you keep the alcohol money I'll just
take the ticket money and you know they
were pretty much happy without putting
bodies in the door right I would do
shows on you know non busy nights so
it's just it was a bonus for them and
I'll be like hey you know if this is
gonna cost me 1500 bucks to get out to
Edmonton and have a place to stay and
throw the show hey and I'm selling the
tickets for 15 bucks each and I need to
pre sell 100 tickets mmm I need to pre
sell them and I tell him Edmonton if we
don't sell the hundred tickets I'm not
coming right don't don't leave comments
and I was and at that point it wasn't
about a hundred tickets I had to sold
about 40 tickets 50 tickets and I did
this in New York sold 250 tickets Wow
I did this in like Sacramento sold like
80 tickets I did this in London sold
about 300 tickets there are a lot of
artists doing this I've literally never
heard of this no a lot of artists are
waiting to get discovered and somebody
else to do it
that's so [__] interesting I love
that it's a dig I like on top of all of
this I said hey I'm gonna make a poster
and I'm gonna sign the poster anybody
gets a poster but what I'll also do is
if you want to sponsor my event then
it's $500 so now it'll be like quest
bars present humbled right live in
London and then you guys give me $500 so
then it got to the point where I was
making the money before and then I'd be
like hey so it's $15 for a ticket $40
for a ticket and a signed book
mmm and then very slowly my audience
changed from young guys who love hip-hop
to girls bringing the book waiting for
me to read from it interesting not
knowing that I made music the book
impacted way quicker way harder than the
music did
really I no idea that's really
interesting yeah and it was in Vancouver
for the first time because literally the
only guy that the show were my friends
who are doing security or doubt and they
appreciated it did you still do the
hip-hop shows 100% just rap because for
me rap is like a big chip on my
shoulders just this is I'm really good
at it I need the world to know even now
all the money I made from you know it's
the same way with you in the comics it's
the money you've made in the business
world you're investing it into this
thing that you're going to do no matter
what and so for me that's what music is
and I had figured this out and then as
Lily grew she in 2015 she went on a
world tour and she took me on her world
tour and then I got I got paid well to
be on the world tour with her and
perform we had done some music together
and yeah we're also doing a documentary
and then the film the the the film team
and the producers of the documentary
hired me because I was the only guy who
could get away was like putting a camera
in Lily's face and not being told to
like lead the room right this is for
someone for a more intimate stressed-out
moments that they wanted to capture I
had kind of that carte blanche to like
be in the room just press record and
write and everybody was okay with that
so I got some money off of that so 20
funny and of 2015 I've made a promise to
myself that you will no longer do
anything for money
so it in 2016 I was saying no or
tripling what I would normally quote
people for an appearance for a
performance and I ended up earning more
from this this abundance mindset I'm
already taken care of because at this
point I had like $45,000 in the bank I
had accumulated from the previous year
because I said I live simple right when
I when I was at zero when I had negative
eighty I was saving every penny so now I
was still able to save money and at 45
like that's enough for me to live for a
year so I'm still living with my parents
that's right and at that point I was all
in for music and then other really good
opportunities came and then end of 2016
was a was a very good year for me 2017 I
got an apple reach though an ad agency
saying hey you know we're doing our
first Apple commercial in Canada for the
iPhone and we want you to be our poet
were you in an Apple ad yeah I'm gonna
iPhone that's awesome man did you feel
that did that pop off your business and
is it your song
you doing a song I did a spoken-word so
that's the things I had not hadn't done
spoken word in years but it was just
serendipitous somebody in LA said you
need to meet this guy named Saul guy in
Toronto and he's doing he runs an artist
house and he's supporting artists and
all of this stuff and I'm and I met with
him he gave me a tour of his place the
next day the guy from the ad agency went
to go see him he's like I'm looking for
a poet and this guy's like a guy named
humble the poet was here yesterday and I
had been on some radio shows and some TV
shows in Canada related to books we have
we have a show called Canada Reads which
is the greatest show ever imagine
Survivor but for books what so they get
five public figures so I'm gonna solid
c-list celebrity in Canada at this point
so they call me like hey we'll pay you
ten grand to read five books whoa and
debate them with four other people
debate the merits of the book yeah so
everybody so everyone picks a book so
you know my book was called 15 dogs they
send me a bunch of books and I picked a
book I like and I had to defend this
book and there's four other contestants
one was like an opera singer one was an
actor one was an Army sniper who lost
both of his legs so there's just public
figures in the country of Canada and I
didn't realize how popular this show was
this the show with this super popular on
the radio and on television so I go on
to this show and we're just debating
books and even if your book is voted out
you're still on the show so it's very
Canadian and friendly and so for me it
was like hey this is awesome and meeting
new people and I ended up my book wins
the show your argument for the book I
miss my argument for the book wins the
show and and and I picked and I had
picked up a book that I just thought was
cool it's called $15 I think you guys
check it out Andriy Alexis it's about 15
dogs who are given human intelligence
and you watch their journeys to see if
any of them can die happy that's the
question the intelligence make us happy
and it's following 15 dogs to see if any
of them can die happy with the newfound
intelligence I ended up winning the
debate between not being the last person
on the show and I win that caught the
attention of the publishing community in
Canada and then they found out that hey
he had self-published a book and also
self published a second book at that
point
and they were offering me book deals and
not very lucrative deals out in Canada
right they don't have the biggest market
and at that point while that happened
the Apple commercial happened and then
that gave me a very big paycheck and I
was like wow like this is like surreal
for me you know and this is a high five
figure paycheck not even six figures
below me is you gave me 40 grand I can
live for any say that's that's a lot of
dosh going back to $15 have you either I
don't know if they turn it into a movie
I could be making that up but flowers
for algernon I'm not so [__]
interesting so it's the story about this
guy and he is ultra low like you and
this woman is doing an experiment and
she basically ends up giving him
intelligence and I actually I can't
remember if I'm totally miss remembering
this and she gives oh god there's the
rat figures and all this anyway this
person with this really like you let
them into Turtles know this person with
a super low IQ gets this drug and they
end up becoming really smart but it
ultimately ends up wearing off and it's
about like the [__] heartbreak of
knowing that you were smart and now
being able to be aware that you used to
be really dumb and now you're sliding
back towards that and like the loss of
humanity as you lose your intelligence
so [__] interesting I remember I read
that as a kid that really stuck with me
there's a episode about that I did it's
such a famous story Homer Simpson they
found out he had a crayon in his nose Oh
what his nose a crayon
okay so when Homer was a child he put a
crayon up his nose and then the doctor
pulls it out then he has super high
intelligence but now he's no longer able
to connect with his family right
including Lisa he's just his his empathy
and his warmth has disappeared so at the
end he puts that he puts the crayon back
up his nose that's it's so interesting
to me that the Simpsons is able to touch
on something so interesting like forever
my you know magic Genie shows up and
what do you wish for I always wish for
super intelligence and my wife is always
horrified because she's like but then we
would lose connection and it was
interesting because as soon as she said
it I was like yeah [__] you're right
like if if you were really processing
like at that level where you just could
not relate to other
well that's really interesting to me but
here's the question would you do it no I
would I would and that always makes my
wife very traumatized but the reality is
man I would like that is so [__]
interesting to me another one would you
live forever if you could yes see me too
but what about all the people you're
gonna lose I am too this was so weird so
I'm I was on Joe Rogan and he was
talking about God an apocalypse or
something and I was saying like oh yeah
like it would be so fascinating to
survive an apocalypse and what that
would look like and he was like wait you
want to live and I was like you don't
like that was so weird it was really
eye-opening to me I never realized the
guy that could probably have the
practical skills to do very true yeah
but it never dawned on me that somebody
would want to be in the part of humanity
that dies in the apocalypse like as hard
as it would be as difficult as trying
like it would be so [__] interesting
to me yeah so yeah the first few season
of The Walking Dead when it was good yes
that's what you had a lot of people that
just they hung themselves saying I'm
sorry I give up I can't do this anymore
yeah and yeah that's that that's one I
think the intelligence one for me is I
think even the gap between having a
3-digit IQ and seeing what like mass
population and the collective IQ is and
the thing that disconnect from there
sometimes makes it you know sometimes I
envy people who don't overthink and envy
people who just act I will give you a
look I don't think intelligence is a
one-way ticket to happiness that is for
sure but I don't think that intelligence
necessarily precludes happiness so there
was a really interesting expose that in
full disclosure I've only ever heard
about if not seen so if I get some of
the details wrong forgive me but
directionally this will be correct the
smartest guy in the u.s. or alive today
I don't remember which of the two has I
think a like a 200 to 225 IQ Einstein if
I'm not mistaken was either 160 or 180
so it gives you an idea it was way
smarter than I think the guy was a
[__] bouncer in a bar and he could
not get his life together like he just
didn't have the drive he didn't have the
interpersonal skills he wasn't able to
like go and manifest the things in his
life that he wanted and from the
retelling anyway this guy like there was
just a sadness about you and I thought
that's really really interesting and
when I think about the things that have
worked out in my life it is certainly
not because I've been smart
if anything that's always been my
struggle as I always feel like I've been
around people who've been a lot smarter
than me but being able to relate to
people having Drive like that if you
were gonna say Tom what's the thing it's
it is grit determination that's Mother
3,000% like right just being able to
persevere to push through to not give up
- you were saying something earlier and
it made me think of this really awesome
quote from Walt Disney he said it won't
feel like it it at the time but
sometimes the kick in the teeth is
exactly what you need and I thought [__]
that is so true like in the moment it
never feels right in the moment it is
definitely not the thing that you want
you would wish it away if you could but
the reality is having to face the
betrayal having to face having made an
idiotic decision having to face your
inadequacies all that stuff one if
you're willing to face it and you're
willing to take that ownership suddenly
you can improve and then also it gives
you that chip on your shoulder which is
another thing I'm gonna ask you about so
the chip on the shoulder to me it's a
dark energy yeah but it's [__]
powerful very very powerful I overall my
overall you know environment and Drive
is still primarily based off of proving
people right there's those guys around
this country around this planet who have
given me couches to sleep on put money
in my hand put me in front of people I
mean you know even even us connecting
you know if somebody's being kind enough
to say hey let me send an email put
myself on the line to connect Tom with
you and because if this was a bad
experience for you that that would look
bad on there sure you know and that's
been my story forever people going out
of their way Lily creating an
environment for me to be like hey don't
worry about earning worrying about
figuring out yourself out you got a
place to stay here and you also have the
fact that people know that you're my
friends so not too many people are gonna
mess with you I've had a lot of people
do that and these are people that don't
genuinely need me to pay them back so I
try to pay it forward and proving right
is I want that to be my main energy but
there is a chip on my shoulder in many
ways you know my father when he was a
cab driver I was four years old my
earliest memory is him getting he got
beat up and seeing his face all mangled
and never a you don't think you don't
think that concept of dad getting beat
up be you've never seen what somebody
looks like getting beat up and you know
after that him having a big thick shield
in his cab in between the drivers and
again us kids we thought it was the
funniest thing ever you slide the window
open you can put the money through we're
just pretending not really how realizing
how serious of a thing it was and then
getting a little bit older and feeling
that anxiety like he he drives 12 hour
shifts and sometimes it's 3 p.m. to 3
a.m.
sometimes a 6 p.m. to 6 a.m. and you
don't know what's gonna happen and what
he's gonna see and then you know that is
that chip on my shoulder bailing I wish
I could make a lot of money and I can
smash that cab I don't want him to work
in that cab ever again and you know I
never got to hit that he's retired
before I got to my financial
independence but you know then also
realizing you have to update the voices
in your head and be like hey he his
story was his story he had to do what he
had to do and even if I was able to make
a boatload of money and retire him what
would you know I still would have had
something else to prove someone else
does these these inner voices in our
head and sometimes we just have to
confront them or even have conversations
with the people that originally planted
them because they're they're flawed
human beings nobody even the guy who
gave me the the bad record deal like at
the end of the day now looking back at
it I'm grateful that happened I also see
fear I don't see conniving I don't see
evil in him I see a person I got himself
in a bad situation
did it have the tools to be like yo I
messed up let's let's sit down and talk
about this and figure it out that's
exactly what I thought when you were
telling us all right that [__] actually
my heart breaks a little bit for him the
fact that he had to flee because he
wasn't willing to tell you that oh [__]
either I lied or stretched the truth or
it fell through or I'm barest or
whatever but that absconded in the
middle of the night with the clothes on
his back was the solution like that's
that's not a good place and he lost I
mean and he lost his friends tooling
every friend that like when we connected
and he had a circle there all my friends
know like as adults I met with these
guys and they all saw that that this
wasn't cool yeah and I'm sure they went
deeper into his situation he probably
grew up in
where the stuff might have been normal
or what have you and I think you know
going back to you know this concept of
having a chip it's it's not sustainable
to prove people wrong but I see I see I
see it here too a lot of people are you
know it's here being America here in LA
you know there's a lot of most people
that are here not from here they came
from other places and sometimes there's
a lot of friction that happen at home
and now they're here like hey if I
become successful it'll make it all
worth it right a lot of us have the
power to accurately visualize what we
want and we can even manifest and I
think especially in LA you know not
everyone you don't have to be smart to
be successful you just have to have that
grit and you can if you put your mind to
anything you can make it happen
that doesn't mean people are putting
their mind to the right things and we're
visualizing and manifesting but we're
not accurately I don't know this is a
word but emotionalizing what's going to
happen so we're like oh all I need to do
is create a company and have a
successful exit and then all will be
there right if you've never done it how
do you know what it's going to feel like
and then you do it and it doesn't it
become it almost feels like an empty
promise and then some people have to
self-awareness to be like okay I need to
stop break this cycle of trying to prove
something to everybody else or I'm gonna
get trapped in the cycle forever yeah my
thing is like look it's super powerful
it's the 80/20 principle so 80% of your
time should be spent on the beautiful
things you want to do in life it should
be spending the things you're grateful
for but 20% of the time that's not gonna
get you through you're gonna be bone
tired you're gonna be weary in a way
that like only happens you know
hopefully a few times a year where
you're just [__] at your wits end you
couldn't possibly go another moment
except for that chip on your shoulder
and they did a really fascinating study
where they had people submerge their arm
in a bucket of ice and they said leave
it in as long as you can so they leave
their arm and the bucket of ice and then
I [__] it's so painful and they have to
take it out they came up with a baseline
and then they had another group come in
and they said put your arm in the bucket
of ice now when you get to the point
where you want to take it out instead of
taking it out I want you to get angry
and I want you to swear and then leave
it in as long as you can and so oh man
[__] I want to take
and they go into like total hookman they
beast out and they swear and get angry
they can leave it in 30% longer it's
[__] crazy man but it's like when you
think about the emotions that we have to
your point about emotionalizing which i
don't think is a word but i like it when
you are leveraging the power of your
emotions which they all have a purpose
even shame can be incredibly motivating
I know that that one of the most
powerful motivators at the beginning of
my journey was shame anger frustration
the chip on your shoulder the I'm never
going to let that [__] person be
right so the person who doubts you and
it's like man that that has gotten me
through the really ugly moments the
moments where it just wasn't enough that
I wanted to help other people it just
wasn't enough that I wanted to win it
just wasn't enough that I wanted to
build something beautiful yeah it was
like [__] this guy like [__] this guy
yeah and like I really want people to
understand because one thing that that
is so [__] dangerous about the the
sort of space that you and I occupy I
read your book it is very uplifting it's
very empowering there's a nuance to life
that is hard to [__] write down there
is a nuance to like all this [__] where
it's like sometimes it's [__] you like
sometimes it's I love you 1,000% and you
should be there so much more than your
anywhere else but sometimes it's [__]
you sometimes it's like I'm I'm just not
going to give up and you have to like
push and Hulk out and get angry and be
willing to like grit your teeth and keep
pushing forward but people want to only
say love yourself in fact that's
probably the easiest place to talk about
it they want to just say love yourself
you're good enough everything's okay but
your journey began with my journey began
with that moment where I was hard of
myself and when you started this in the
beginning in fact I didn't want to
interrupt so what you're saying was
really powerful but the fact that you
were like I had to be hard on myself
yes I'm like that's where people fall
down yeah it's like [__] you've got to
hold yourself to a standard man and like
people that that really love this show
the impact theory and they come and they
want to work here right the first thing
I tell them is what you see on screen is
me trying to uplift and empower people
you have to understand I hold
[__] to a standard so if you
think all I'm gonna do is cut
you like that is not real like that
won't work it won't win and I'm always
worried that people sort of selectively
listen to what I say and they don't take
the whole message and sometimes man as
much as yes you need to love yourself
yes you need to be kind to yourself yes
you have to have grace and understanding
for yourself and for other people at the
same [__] time like if you really
want to achieve greatness which you have
no moral obligation to do yeah but if
you want to achieve greatness if that's
really your stick let me tell you right
now you're gonna have to hold yourself
to a crazy [__] high standard a crazy
high standard and I think even going
back to what you said you know love is
love it can you know be can be a kiss on
the cheek but it's also a kick in the
teeth yeah you know and it's and from
that perspective and you're right for me
and probably having the challenges of
you know after interacting with other
people and being like you know for me it
was suck it up for me it was you know
what's the use of complaining so for me
hearing people complain now is it's kind
of like nails on the chalk dude nails on
a [__] job and here's the thing the
reason is nails on a chalkboard for me
is I actually want them to win so for
whatever reason I'm wired I love seeing
other people win it actually makes me
happy when I was five or six one of my
earliest memories is throwing an Easter
egg hunt because I didn't care as much
about winning as my sister did so I saw
an egg and I didn't pick it up because I
knew that she would find it so like that
[__] seeing other people who really are
invested in that like I love it I love
seeing people win but man like at the
end of the day sometimes you just have
to toughen the [__] up you've got to
stop complaining you've got to get [__]
done so when I see people who I want to
win complaining not taking
responsibility it's like I get it man I
get it I really do have empathy for it
but at the end of the day like if you
want to achieve you've got to take total
ownership I wrote an article I thought
this would be like might one of my very
first blog articles ever I thought this
would be like the greatest gift in the
world I wrote this thing with so much
[__] excitement you can imagine I was
like oh my god people gonna read this
they're gonna love it the most and it
was alright imagine you go for a drive
one day and you're in your car and you
pull up between these two cars and then
behind another car so you're basically
trapped there in all sides and you look
in your rear-view mirror and you see a
car barreling on you from behind it
lights red so there's nowhere for you to
go
you're totally boxed in and the guy
driving is drunk you go to honk your
horn you realize your car is [__]
dead the horn doesn't work you can't
even make noise there's no time to get
out of your car BAM he smashes into you
whose fault is that
now if you don't know me everybody says
obviously it's the drunk drivers fault
insurance company is even going to agree
with you
it's the drunk drivers fault and I said
no here's the great news I was so
excited it's your fault and people went
[__] crazy they were like your victim
shaming like what are you doing like
this is so crazy you [__] like what
the [__] this is irresponsible Tom I I
was so into you and then you say this
and [__] you and I was like what like I
I was so caught off-guard by that
reaction because I thought everybody
who's gonna be like oh my god you're
right I retained the power which is what
you were saying earlier and if I give if
I say that it's his fault then he takes
all the power and there's nothing I
could do and my whole thing was I'm not
saying feel badly about yourself like
don't waste time beating yourself up
over the fact that you ended there and
your car wouldn't work and you pulled
into the kill box and you got in your
car in the first place all I'm saying is
always remember if you make a different
choice you could get a different result
that's it yeah exactly and it's and I
think that's what it is you're trying to
take people to where they need to be hmm
and and and there's gonna be no shortage
of you because no one's gonna come out
of the box with that idea of taking
personal responsibility and you're
absolutely right I've recently you know
celebrating a friend's accomplishment
said something along the lines of you
know I work as I walk I work half as
hard as you
but that still makes me work twice as
hard as everybody else in the blowback
well you know you don't know other
people's stories you don't know why
they're not able to work hard and I'm
not and I didn't talk about a specific
topic and you get the blowback because
people really take it as an attack on
their identity and they look at it as
specifically just for them as if we're
talking about that and projecting these
insecurities I think it's super
interesting because it holds us back and
I think we're doing ourselves a
disservice even as a society where we're
it's and I'm Canadian so we have so many
not to get too political but we have so
many entitlements kind of embedded into
our culture and years ago I got to
perform at Lollapalooza and I met
childish gambino and this is back before
Toronto had his musical wave and I said
we have so many talented people but
we're not seeing any traction he goes
because you have free health care and I
was like what does it have to do with
free health care he goes in this country
when you hit 18 you're on your own and
you got to figure it out he goes you
guys probably have a government-funded
record label too don't you do and I'm
serious yeah we have we have we have a
lot of grants and funds and some of that
got me out of my hole so I'm gonna you
know a lot of shout outs to them but we
do have government-funded things and you
know they kind of look at it like well a
Canadian artist can't compete with an
American artist because our market
smaller so we're gonna invest in them
and you know here's you know and if
you're a big enough artist here's a
$75,000 tour budget and you don't have
to pay back because a lot of people go
in the red going on tour and so there's
this thing and it does build a level of
entitlement because all of a sudden if
the grant goes away people like oh what
am I gonna do with my life that was my
thing and I even noticed that with those
England artists we told me about the
radio spins for them to get those radio
spins they had to know the DJ once the
DJ left the station now all of a sudden
it was a human rights issue for them and
I think that's the big thing it goes
back to that book I don't know I
remember the author who moved my cheese
never heard of it oh it's it'll take you
20 minutes to read the whole book the
book is about four mice running in a
maze and one day they go to where the
cheese is at and it's not there and each
Mouse represents an emotion hem haw
scurry and if ever the last one is as to
how they reacted the cheese not being
there so one Mouse is pretty much like
it's the end of the world how dare the
cheese not be there to the to the other
side of the spectrum where the mouse is
like I was noticing that the cheese was
slowly going away and I made
preparations can under this stuff
happens overnight
none of these you know none of these
these entitlements that we have and I'm
a big fan of George Carlin and George
Carlin always says stop mixing up your
rights for your privileges most of the
things you consider a right or a
privilege and as a privilege they will
slowly go away and I was being told just
even as a teacher like hey you know all
these things that we have a retirement
that we're getting right now in 2008
you're not going to get that that will
not be there when you're 50
be mindful of that now
you know telling my father hey uber is
coming in what do you think it's legal
moral or right it's here and it's
killing your taxi industry you need to
retire dude I don't get people that
fight back against change like that like
at the end of the day the consumer is
always going to win like what they want
is gonna win you can try to legislate it
like you will slow it down for sure but
you're never gonna be able to stop it it
is like this one-way street entitlement
is another thing where it's like it
really winds me up but it winds me up
for people because here's the the
reality about entitlement as a human
being the only way to win the only way
to achieve greatness which is my bias I
always come at things from like human
thriving to me is about actuating your
potential I think that is innate I don't
think that oh some people just happen to
like that not everybody wants to play at
a global scale I get that but I think
that humans thrive when they're
improving I think that that is one of
the absolute foundational pillars of
happiness that you will never have true
and lasting fulfillment unless you're
improving so that to me is like an in a
thing so ok so if we know that human
thriving requires you to be pushing
yourself and getting better to actuate
your potential the problem with failing
to realize that and to feeling like
people owe you something is one even if
things are given to you that's never
going to give you the fulfillment so
take money money is so [__] easy to
like think your way through when you
give people money in a lottery they are
emotional messes because they did
nothing to earn that money and when I
tell people like when I got the money
it was it didn't impact how I felt about
myself why because the person I had to
become in order to be capable of earning
that money that transformed me it's like
when people asked me about like who is
my favorite interview I always say David
Goggins why the funny thing is it wasn't
the interview David Goggins changed me
in the preparation in building up for
that in researching him and learning
about him and trying to get my mind
around him so that I could do the
interview that was what changed me it's
the going through that journey yourself
of becoming capable of something that's
the thing that transforms you and so
when people are like what
the [__] I'm owed this it's like whoa
whoa whoa that will never serve you in
the world at large one because of
fulfillment you have to be pushing
yourself in order to develop skills and
then two if you want to get ahead in the
world the only way to do that is to
leave people in awe that's it like if
you want to move up in the world like
you've got to dazzle people you've got
to make them go whoa what the [__] you
get your commercial not because somebody
knew somebody that's how they became
aware of you you get the commercial
because then they see you and they go
what the [__] and the number of hours
that you have to put into becoming that
that's the juice right and then the end
is like it's a cherry on top but it was
the struggle it was being betrayed and
fighting your way back and being $80,000
in debt and working your way up and
having the money and being able to turn
down jobs that weren't right because you
never had to do anything for the money
again like that was the thing that gives
you that emotional stand it's
never-ending
there is and this is the thing we out
here everyone thinks in terms of a
straight line a beginning middle and end
that you know we watch TV everything
wraps up in 30 and 30 22 minutes you
know everything wraps up in a nice tidy
bow and it resets after and that has
such an impact on our psyche we're like
I am working I'm working towards that
pot of gold not realizing that there is
no pot of gold you need to find the pot
of gold on your rainbow you need to have
fun on this and and even for me it's you
know getting that commercial took me to
one place but now you know the book
becoming a best-seller in Canada and in
doing super well in India and hitting
all these different markets
independently and then through
bookstores and now here realizing they
hate I have a lot of best-selling
authors friends warned me hey you're
working with publishers manage your
expectations this is gonna be on you up
and tell my only promise to myself well
you know for the April 9th release was
you have to be able to go to sleep on
April 9th knowing that you squeezed out
everything you could to make sure this
would be a successful campaign that
meant you know for me challenging my
Canadian sensibilities my Canadian
sensibilities are you send a text once
and if they reply they replied they
don't you leave them alone you know and
and I and I appreciate how a sort of you
know you American Cowboys are you guys
are a lot more assertive and you guys
welcome to your sort of Miss as well so
you know you got a poke
product people and that's what had to
happen this time this I almost kind of
felt like this was my baby and I'm
trying to steal a loaf of bread for it
and I was poking people everybody in
anybody's thing from different angles
like hey I need you to contact someone
so hey I need you to hold I need you to
reach out the zone so hey I need you to
open the book if you need to open this
book because at the moment you open it
you're gonna connect with something that
you read I and for me that was the
victory now knowing that hey I was
always afraid of quote-unquote burning
bridges so I was always afraid of
offending people or they were afraid of
coming across as too crass or - or too
pokey at them but then the other part of
my me was like listen this is it you
sign with a major publisher this is it
there's not a level above this now right
this is the final release for this book
it had its independent release it had
its Canadian release it did very well
when you sold it independently but now
this is it you're in the big leagues
you're at the championship game you're
not gonna hold anything back and for me
to realize how much was inside of me
that I was holding back right because
there's levels to this fear and first
you know yeah I fear to pull the trigger
and leave your day job to do this but
then there's fear of asking for help
then there's fear of putting yourself
out there and being vulnerable and being
and being completely naked and authentic
with the people around you and being
like this is what it is and it has
really shown me that I have probably a
solid and I don't want to be absolute
probably a 95% success rate of facing a
fear and the worst-case scenario would
not happen and you know and and that's
everything that's asking that girl for
her phone number that is telling your
parenting and coming out of the closet
that is telling somebody you're in a
relationship with it this isn't doing it
for you all of these things that you
know fear manifests itself in so many
ways and it creates so much resistance
and we start to justify it on so many
levels all of this is just going to hold
you back and now all of a sudden you're
gonna need fixes my friend in Berlin he
wakes up at 5 in the morning
works out at a jungle gym in cold Berlin
Berlin I think Berlin did three hours of
sunlight last winter it's it's just a
cold cloudy place
anywhere's winter clothing just pull-ups
on this jungle gym and there's nobody
watching he's not he doesn't have a blog
he doesn't have social media to him he
has none of this and he doesn't read
books and this is why he fascinates me
and I'm like why are you doing this he
was I just I just do what feels good
he's Jamaican and he says to me cuz I'm
a young black man who doesn't need a fix
anymore because this was his journey to
get out of addiction and you know I felt
like a bad influence on him too when I
was like hey let's not let's not ride
bikes today in the cold winter to go
downtown you know I'll cover an uber or
something and I'm like I don't want to
make it almost I just I was about to
give him sugar for the first time and it
was a really interesting perspective and
it it goes back to that like why was
somebody with your success to take cold
showers I think of Kevin Rose every time
I look at his Instagram Sky's attaching
himself to like a stretch machine doing
something to be uncomfortable or
intermittent fasting and it's just and
it is that Bruce Wayne idea of sleeping
on the floor and and and one of my
favorite yet most inconvenient quotes
that I always have to remind myself is
true freedom only exists in discipline
and to understand that if not once I get
that big check and I can write out the
rest of my days this is forever
I overcame a lot of personal challenges
and and faced a lot of fears releasing
this book now what's next and and fear
ends up being that compass fear is
telling you which way we have to go and
so often especially as resources come
into our lives we have the luxury to
avoid facing these things and looking
them in the eyes because we can be like
oh let me just you know let me go to
this show or let me let me buy this toy
now I can afford that or I can afford to
be around people who will never say no
to me or I can afford to be around
people who will never tell me how it is
and that's in itself a danger for sure
in fact when you were talking about your
friend who struggled with addiction and
then he goes and works on a farm or
whatever was I thought yes
like that's I'd never put it together in
my head until you said it and I thought
that's actually really perfect like the
putting the body to work not giving the
mind time to be idle forcing yourself to
be disciplined forcing yourself to do
hard things like all of the sudden it's
the things that would create the space
for the addiction to pour in and and
everybody bare with me some sort of
came through this in real time but like
all the things that would create that
space that that sort of void and that
openness and the sort of internal
chatter would go away when you have
those physical demands like when you get
in a cold shower you're not thinking
about anything other than get the [__]
out like your mind is screaming it so
hard like every muscle in you tenses and
you have to and this is why it's so
powerful you have to learn to relax even
win like part of your mind is screaming
for something else that you know nope
I'm in control I don't have to get out
I'm not going to die and you can relax
it and it's like once you're able to
take control of your emotions like that
or once you're able to like in his case
put your body to work like there's just
something that happens when either you
have control of your mind
I mean it's really both you have control
of your mind which allows you to go do
things that are hard to work on the farm
to exhaust yourself and that's something
that in I think modern society people
don't know what it means to be [__]
exhausted like a lot of people don't
they don't work out they're not pushing
themselves they're not taxing the body
and there's like a restlessness I mean
people talk a lot about anxiety and
depression one of the first things you
should do is start working out like if
somebody tells me that they have
depression almost guaranteed not always
everybody out there freaking out I get
it not always but almost always they're
not working out self diagnose depression
yeah they're not working out their diet
is [__] like there's just a certain
level of go push your body go get
control of your mind do really hard [__]
especially when you don't want to do it
yeah and it's not as convenient as
pulling out your phone and scrolling and
getting beginning these little dopamine
shots it's not as convenient as
masturbating it's not as convenient as a
whole bunch of other things that might
give you some a quick piece of
gratification but it is more sustainable
it's in fulfillment its fulfillment like
happiness versus fulfillment like
happiness is super transient a bowl of
ice cream gives me [__] happiness let
me tell you right now you could put me
in an fMRI machine that [__] is tasty as
[__] and eating it brings me a lot of
happiness but it doesn't bring me
fulfillment right so nor is this
sustainable right
you ate it every day its ability to keep
you happy
yeah [__] hedonic setpoints like that
is surreal that like you want to talk
about the human condition is just weird
hedonic setpoints is one of them so for
anybody that's never heard of a han
hedonic setpoint it's like at first like
you're saying the bowl of ice cream is
so rad that it's all over my radar and
then the next time it's like a little
less rad and then a little less and then
all of a sudden it's like not at all and
I'm just doing it now it of out of
compulsion and like just a hit sort of
okay or you know the baseline like an
alcoholic like at first you drink is
it's fun and like in my case you feel
like you're suppressing the urge to
dance on the table and then all of a
sudden you're just [__] drinking to
to not shake and vomit yeah and
understanding that that's like just the
sad sort of reality of the human
condition is that [__] will adjust so
you have to give yourself those spaces
like fasting I hate it but I do it and
partly because dude that first meal when
you break fast oh my god after five days
of water only fasting that meal is
exquisite
no matter almost no matter what you eat
it's like oh my god this is the best
Ritz cracker I've ever had in my life
you know like whatever you're going to
have is just gonna be beyond
extraordinary yeah and I mean I'm sure
if you do have you had an ice cream you
know ice cream once a month and you know
you made an event out of it you would
enjoy it like when when I see people
eating ice cream that they clearly don't
want to be eating it like we're we're
now in a sad place that always bums me
out because it's either don't eat it
or eat it and [__] love it like make
a thing out of it like really do it as a
conscious celebration then hey I'm all
for it I'm so lucky that my happy food
right now is a specific salad I don't
know why well as sweet green the
Hollywood Bowl with tofu I don't know
why I love it so much you as part of its
psychological because you know it's
nourishing you or is it purely just as a
great [__] salad I feel like I don't
even like thought I feel like just
whatever they're putting into it the the
the the chemistry of it is it's just
hitting everything well part of it could
be if you're drowning it in dressing
which is where a lot of people go wrong
with salads it's like they put sugar in
dressings people dress
should and dressings so I feel like it's
a bit more sustainable than ice cream
yeah that is for you and it makes me
have and I mean I mean even now like
when when I was on my way here and I got
the call saying hey things moving a
little bit late
I literally just changed yeah I just
went there and I hate to salad and it's
made me super happy and maybe there is
an element of it were just like hey you
don't feel as guilty eating this because
you don't have it's not like eating a
you know eating a bunch of bread and
feeling exhausted right after heating it
but I mean I feel grateful for that
because in terms of what I splurge on
and I think it was all those years of my
minimalism just you know that has really
embedded itself into me where I don't
have a lot of real interests that I want
to you know spend my time and money on
anymore that excite me
and I'm super grateful for that I'm just
like yeah I love even the salad and it's
a treat and I could probably do it two
times a day that's funny before I let
you go I need to ask what's your most
important tattoo so for people just
listening the man has several tattoos
and I'm always curious when people have
tats like what what is the one that like
this one is meaningful now period why is
that important understanding that that's
all I have you know I have nothing like
in a neck art all a kind of way after
you read the powernow
so [__] interesting it with that
tattoo one the book will be sort of
self-evident to you because you're
obviously already bought into the
netting that's what it is - I grew up
you know I grew up and security I grew
up with Eastern philosophy so I'm
realizing a lot of times people come to
me they hit me with this stuff that my
mom was teaching me when I was a kid my
philosophy cyclical being present you
know understanding anxiety exists in the
future and regrets exist in the past a
lot of this but I think it was when I
one of my moments where I was dealing
with more superficial loss nothing you
know that was impacting my ability to
survive I was just I look at the end of
the day you literally only have now the
first quote in your book is from the
daodejing right this is speaking of
Eastern philosophy just because we have
over here read it so there was a time in
my life when I self-identified as a
Taoist I went hard on the Taoism yeah so
to attain knowledge add things every day
to attain wisdom remove things every day
I [__] love that question
and that pretty much sums up your
which is called unlearn by the way yeah
and that's what it wasn't that journey
like pretty much I wrote and when
whenever I said you should write the
book and I put this book together base
off the writings it was me
realizing a you know the fluffy stuff is
fluffy let's get more pragmatic but B it
wasn't about acquiring something new and
it's a special skill or a special
mindset to move forward it was really
letting go of stuff and like you know as
you mentioned what shame it was there's
a lot of shame and guilt and I'm finding
the source of that is like oh that came
from my upbringing because that's the
common tool that's used in our culture
is guilt and shame and having to be
mindful of that like alright I need to
let that go
not only do I need to let it go in my
internal dialogue I need to let it go of
my tool belt I can't make anybody I made
a promise don't ever make people feel
guilty or ashamed and if somebody is
already manifesting that for example you
know let's say how this ran a little bit
late if you felt guilty for it I it
would be my responsibility to like no
that's not me I'm not that guy I'll find
something to do with the extra 30
minutes don't let that happen
we need that we need to break that cycle
because I do kind of feel like there is
a level of unhealthiness I came to that
and and this journey with this book is
the reason I wanted to finish that story
with the publishers and I love reaching
out to me it's when they came to me with
the deals I said hey I wrote a book and
people really dig it and I feel it has
legs and you guys would be a bigger
trampoline to bounce it off of what do
you guys think
and they said traditionally we don't
publish books that are already out and
then I'm like alright cool I'm gonna go
make music and I just I just said no I
like this is I don't want to do it and I
think I figured out ways to make money
so I'm not I'm not gonna do it and then
a bookstore by the name of indigo which
is a big chain in Canada and they own
all the bookstores they're like hey
we're starting a publishing wing
we love your first book can we just
change the cover and republish it so I
was like so what do I need what do you
need from me to like can you just email
PDF so they didn't even change the
formatting or anything I just Wow and I
have spelling misspelling mistakes in it
ID grammar mistakes that everything in
my original copy and then they took it
and they just put it on the shelves and
that's when it became a best-seller and
I and and in complete honesty and
authenticity
you know the publishers are like well
you sold well in Canada very back man
however since this drop has been doing
very well here and it's a and again but
I think I'm not I'm not finding that
fulfillment from seeing myself number
one and you know in whatever is in each
category they have me and on Amazon as a
best seller I'm finding fulfillment
knowing that hey you left it all in the
ring right you you reached out to people
you poked people you did it by yourself
you you camped out of people's offices
you knocked on doors you you had the
uncomfortable conversations with your
publishers you you called people out you
ask for favors from people that you were
afraid to ever ask anything from and
that is where I got a lot of pride and I
think I also think is important for the
audience to know how even we met we had
a really great conversation and not
knowing who each other were and I think
that's from a birthday party at the
birthday for ya and to me at that point
you you were somebody who was making
comic books and you you give me a really
fascinating story about how comic books
also work as proof of concept for films
and I was like this is really
interesting I'm just like how'd you get
into that and then you start telling
your story and then realizing that hey
cuz Lilly would always tell me something
yeah just podcast with a guy named Tom
and he owns quest bars and I was like oh
I like the protein bars and so I was
like yeah he asked me questions that
I've never heard before he does the best
interviews ever and everyone that was
that was all it was and I was like wow
he it was I really appreciated that we
had that authentic moment and it wasn't
somebody being like hey Tom and humble
you have to connect bright it was
something really cool like that and I'm
glad to be you know the first guy to to
do this I think you should definitely do
a lot more of this know there's a lot of
things conversations a lot to learn and
meeting you because I'm actually really
bad at meeting people okay and that that
was like really some early attempts of
mine to like get to know people and
strike up conversations just like cold
so it was there's a lot of fun to have
something be so rewarding like your
story is really really interesting and
it was it's fun that night as it has
been today I do have another question
that came up during a conversation and I
tried to pin it and then I forgot what
are your thoughts on ambition and
contentment wow that's an awesome
question so I think that they coexist
beautifully I think that you can be both
wildly ambitious and at the same time be
when you're looking at your life be like
I'm totally content and if I never
achieve another thing like I'm totally
happy to me it is about you can flip a
switch in your mind and people have got
to learn to control their minds like
they if you have one mission in this
life it is to learn to use your mind to
your advantage and not to let it run
away with you so I know if I want to
like if you said you Tom you can never
do another thing like this is your life
what you have now this is it you'll
never be able to strive I'd be like okay
well then I'm gonna focus all of my
attention on gratitude I'm gonna live on
a sort of emotional monk life I'm gonna
flip a value in my mind and this is
where people [__] up they don't
understand the power of values what do
you value Y value ambition I value
pursuit but I've chosen to value that
now I could just as easily go
you know what starting today I believe
the following the Buddhists were right
and all of life is suffering born of
desire and once you let go of desire you
let go of suffering and I would just
decide I'm gonna [__] value that I
already think there's wisdom in it now I
choose to actually ignore it and my life
is all about pursuit and ambition but
I'm very careful never to make it about
success so I'm not tied to the outcome
I'm tired entirely - did I sincerely
pursue something that I believed in that
I really cared about and if you said you
just can't do that anymore for whatever
reason I would set that aside as a value
and I would bring a new value into my
life and that new value would be
contentedness so when I look at my life
I'm like [__] man I love my life I love
my wife I love what I'm doing I believe
in this like I'm cool I'm chill I'm good
like this but at the same time then
other times I'm like no no no like let's
see how far we can really push this
[__] thing so then I have to leverage
the discontent then I have to leverage
the chip on my shoulder then I have to
decide to spend some amount of my energy
focused on what's wrong I have to spend
some amount of energy in the hunger
feeding that stoking those flames but
always always always I have in my mind
what I call the overwatch mechanism and
the overwatch mechanism is watching for
it's it's sort of the the always sober
version of myself so whether the
sobriety is sobriety from ambition
whether the sobriety of sobriety from
fear whether it's sobriety from actual
alcohol like
there's always a part of my mind that is
watching what I do and it's very careful
to make sure that what I do is in
alignment with my beliefs and values and
all that feel like a checks and balances
yeah and I think that everybody has that
but you have to focus on it you and that
look that doesn't mean that I don't miss
beak or say stupid [__] or get off track
so in no way shape or form am I saying
that the [__] overwatch mechanism is
perfect it's not but it keeps me from
staying derailed for too long it keeps
me from not recognizing a mistake and
then you know just making sure that I
apologize and I move on so yeah being
able to go back and forth earlier we
were talking about that nuance like
people like achieving at the highest
level requires this crazy amount of
nuance that is so [__] hard to write
which is why I've not written a book
because it's [__] hard and every time
I go to capture it I'm like I can speak
about it but like putting it into words
it gets very difficult so it's when you
have this grand ambition which is simply
a choice I've chosen to value that then
if you let that be all-consuming and you
forget the power of now or you forget
the power of like take a minute to enjoy
what you have like don't run so hard
that you forget you actually have
something pretty [__] extraordinary
even if all you have is your health even
if you don't have your health but you
have the ability to try to win it back
even if you don't have the ability to
win it back but you know like [__]
Viktor Frankl who was in a concentration
camp said at anytime if you know why
you're struggling if you know why you're
going through this thing no matter how
horrific it is you can get through it
and it's like the Nietzsche quote if you
have the right why you can survive
almost any how even the Albert Camus
with with you know in the in the coldest
of winter within me I found you know an
eternal summer and if that you know in
anything very silly like you know the
the Sisyphus story you know imagine
Sisyphus pushing the rock and it rolling
back down but imagine him having fun
doing it
knowing what the outcomes gonna be each
time and still being okay with it I
always thought that was that was now
something I've always been kind of
tackling with this idea that ambition
means where I'm at isn't enough and I
have ambitions to go further contentment
means all of this is flying how do we
make them old hands and I think you hit
it on the nose right there where you're
like look there are compartments or
there are pieces of me and I am
embracing them all whether that's that
dark side that chip on my shoulder those
negative thoughts the you know the
voices that that you know the voices of
that kid who beat me up when I was 10
years old and now I got a channel that
inner Hulk to make this all happen cool
and then I need to take a break from
that and now all of a sudden I need to
to channel the love of my wife with the
love of my family and think in terms of
warmth and I think so many of us are
thinking in absolutes as these are black
or as either way we're either always
positive or we're always negative and
it's like no we we exist and I'm so
grateful that all the people that I'm
meeting in this space I feel like this
generation of people who are trying to
help people find their greatness their
wellness and presenting the message are
all saying look I'm flawed
you know I'm messing up and I'm here to
share my journey with you guys as I mess
up and please don't think you guys can
hold me to some holier-than-thou
standard because we're not there in all
of these land and I've had that too with
the success of this book is obviously
having a beard and looking and looking
like Oh show people start testing this
guy like has it all and you know and and
and and speaking slowly or just not
having too much color in my voice when I
speak people think I'm calm and I
meditate all the time and and I don't I
don't do any of this I'm somebody who
makes mistakes like everybody else I
make irresponsible mistakes sometimes I
say dumb [__] on social media just like
everybody else but I just take an extra
five seconds to think about what I did
and think a little bit deeper for it and
then like an excited excited nerd I want
to share that with people who care about
that and I and I really appreciate you
sharing this platform of your community
with me as well so you know we can
expand it and just continue this
movement it's so exciting to to do this
I'm excited to see what else you get on
this couch and kind of geek out and just
sit there as like a quiet third person
drinking my tea watching you guys just
riff and it'll be fun man thank you for
sharing today it's rad thank you for the
book which is a beautiful edition of the
world I appreciate you again sharing the
platform and absolutely man things have
been things have been going really well
with this and and no matter what happens
with this book I'm proud of what I've
been able to channel inside to kind of
make
to make this happen and I think for
anybody out there writing again I saw a
self-published this book five years ago
and I moved on and I focused on my music
this book didn't leave me alone
it it does what it does by itself and it
got me to this point and again I'm
everything I make off this book is going
back into the music and I wanna as I
said have fun focus on those some of
those chips on my shoulders and create
and for my own specific community the
South Asian community you know this is
the first time we've had that we've had
the space to be creators and you're
seeing that with Lilly Singh you've seen
that where rupee Cole are you seeing
that now we had to cross the pond and
find a safe place because back home just
a lot of conflict and that opportunity
didn't arise and it's been such a
journey and this book was birthed out of
me being fed up with the fluffy stuff
you know it's all is I'm focusing on
pragmatism probably when the camera ends
I love some more you know constructive
critique on the book and and has a you
know continued writing to to connect
with with more audiences and people who
may have already heard these messages
and need to move on to the next one
awesome well brother thank you so much
for being here every world will never
happen 100% your way and I'm glad it is
show because if it all happened your way
where do I go I'm glad it's not
happening your way little bit my way a
little bit your way a little bit
somebody else's way that's how the world
should be